1️⃣ HR / Introductory Questions

These are usually asked first.

Tell me about yourself.

Explain your current role in Tata Consultancy Services.

What is your role in the London Stock Exchange Group project?

Why do you want to change your job?

What are your key strengths as a Site Reliability Engineer?

What production issues have you handled recently?

Describe a major incident you resolved.

What is your on-call experience?

How do you handle high pressure incidents in production?

Where do you see yourself in the next 3 years?

2️⃣ Site Reliability / Production Support Questions

These are very common for your profile.

What is Site Reliability Engineering (SRE)?

What is SLA, SLO, and SLI?

How do you handle P1 incidents?

What steps do you follow for Root Cause Analysis (RCA)?

What is failover and failback?

How do you monitor production systems?

What logs do you check during an incident?

What is runbook automation?

How do you ensure high availability?

What is incident management workflow?

3️⃣ Linux Questions (Very Important)

Because you worked as a System Administrator.

Explain the Linux boot process.

Difference between hard link and soft link.

What is LVM?

How to check CPU, memory, and disk usage?

What happens when disk is 100% full?

What is inode?

Difference between top, vmstat, iostat.

How do you troubleshoot high CPU usage?

How do you check running services?

What is systemctl?

Example command questions:

top
df -h
free -m
ps -ef
netstat -tulpn
4️⃣ DevOps / CI-CD Questions

Based on your Jenkins, GitLab, Docker, Kubernetes experience.

Git

Difference between git fetch and git pull.

What is git rebase?

What is git tag?

What is merge conflict?

Jenkins

What is Jenkins pipeline?

Difference between declarative and scripted pipeline.

What is multibranch pipeline?

How do you trigger Jenkins jobs?

Docker

What is Docker?

Difference between Docker image and container.

What is Dockerfile?

What is multi-stage build?

What is bind mount vs volume?

Kubernetes

What is Kubernetes?

What is Pod?

Difference between Deployment and StatefulSet.

What is Service in Kubernetes?

How do you scale pods?

5️⃣ Cloud (AWS) Questions

Since you mentioned AWS services.

What is VPC?

Difference between Security Group and NACL.

What is Auto Scaling?

What is Elastic Load Balancer?

Difference between EBS and S3.

What is IAM role?

What is cross region deployment?

What is SNS vs SQS?

6️⃣ Monitoring Tools Questions

You mentioned Datadog and CloudWatch.

What metrics do you monitor in Datadog?

How do alerts work in Amazon Web Services CloudWatch?

What is log monitoring?

How do you detect memory leaks?

7️⃣ Scenario-Based Questions (Very Common)

Interviewers love these.

Scenario 1

Production website is slow. What will you check first?

Scenario 2

CPU usage is 100% on server. What steps will you take?

Scenario 3

Application is not reachable after deployment.

Scenario 4

One Kubernetes pod keeps restarting.

Scenario 5

Jenkins pipeline failed during deployment.

💡 Important:
Based on your resume, interviewers will mostly focus on:

Linux troubleshooting

Production incidents

CI/CD pipelines

Docker/Kubernetes

AWS basics

Monitoring tools

✅ If you want, I can also prepare:

30 MOST ASKED DEVOPS INTERVIEW QUESTIONS for your resume

Perfect “Tell me about yourself” answer

Real DevOps scenario questions asked in interviews

Mock interview (like real interview practice)

Just tell me 👍

30 MOST ASKED DEVOPS INTERVIEW QUESTIONS for your resume

Based on your resume (SRE + Production Support + Linux + AWS + CI/CD + Docker/Kubernetes with 8.5 years experience at Tata Consultancy Services), these are 30 very commonly asked DevOps interview questions that interviewers are likely to ask you.

I grouped them so preparation becomes easier.

30 Most Asked DevOps Interview Questions (Based on Your Resume)
1️⃣ Basic DevOps Concepts

What is DevOps and why is it important?

What are the key principles of DevOps?

What is the difference between DevOps and SRE (Site Reliability Engineering)?

What are CI and CD?

What are the benefits of CI/CD pipelines?

2️⃣ Linux (Very Important for Your Profile)

How do you troubleshoot a server with high CPU usage?

How do you check memory utilization in Linux?

What steps do you take if a server disk becomes full?

Difference between hard link and soft link.

What is LVM and why is it used?

Common commands interviewers expect:

top
htop
df -h
free -m
ps -ef
netstat -tulpn
3️⃣ Git Questions

Difference between git fetch and git pull.

What is git rebase?

What is git tag and when do we use it?

How do you resolve merge conflicts?

What is git stash?

4️⃣ Jenkins / CI-CD Questions

What is Jenkins pipeline?

What is the difference between declarative pipeline and scripted pipeline?

What is multibranch pipeline in Jenkins?

How do you trigger Jenkins builds automatically?

How do you secure credentials in Jenkins?

5️⃣ Docker Questions

What is Docker and why do we use it?

Difference between Docker image and container.

What is a Dockerfile?

What is Docker volume vs bind mount?

What is a multi-stage Docker build?

6️⃣ Kubernetes Questions

What is Kubernetes?

What is a Pod?

Difference between Deployment and StatefulSet.

What is Kubernetes Service and its types?

How do you scale applications in Kubernetes?

Bonus Questions (Very Likely for Your Profile)

Because your resume mentions AWS, Monitoring, and Production Support, you may also get:

What is VPC in Amazon Web Services?

Difference between Security Group and NACL.

What is Auto Scaling?

How do you monitor systems using Datadog?

What is CloudWatch alarm?

Important Scenario Questions (Interviewers Love These)

You will almost certainly get questions like:

Production application is down. What will you check first?

One Kubernetes pod keeps restarting. How will you troubleshoot?

Jenkins pipeline failed during deployment. What will you do?

CPU usage suddenly spiked to 100%. How will you investigate?

Application logs are not generated. How will you debug?



Tell Me About Yourself (Best Answer)

“Hello, my name is Pankaj Kumar. I have around 8.5 years of experience in IT, primarily in Site Reliability Engineering, Production Support, and System Administration.

Currently, I am working with Tata Consultancy Services in Bangalore as a Site Reliability Engineer, supporting applications for the London Stock Exchange Group project. In my current role, I focus on ensuring high availability, reliability, and performance of production systems. My responsibilities include monitoring production environments, responding to incidents, performing root cause analysis, and implementing preventive measures.

I also work with CI/CD pipelines using Jenkins and GitLab, and I have hands-on experience with Docker and Kubernetes for containerized application management. Additionally, I have experience with AWS services such as EC2, S3, VPC, IAM, and Auto Scaling to support scalable cloud infrastructure.

Before this role, I worked as an Application Support Engineer and System Administrator, where I managed Linux servers, performed system monitoring, automation using shell scripts, and handled deployments and infrastructure support.

Overall, my core strengths are Linux administration, production support, automation, monitoring, and DevOps practices. I enjoy solving complex production issues and improving system reliability through automation and better monitoring.

Currently, I am looking for opportunities where I can further grow in DevOps and Site Reliability Engineering, and contribute to building scalable and reliable systems.”
